README.md, before:

# nosql-challenge

This assignment consists of two deliverables:

    Deliverable 1: Database and Jupyter Notebook Set Up
    Deliverable 2: Updating the Database
    Deliverable 3: Exploratory Analysis


Data Engineering: 
    MongoDB
    PyMongo
    NoSQL_setup_starter.ipynb
    NoSQL_analysis_starter.ipynb
    establishments.json file

Data Analysis Requirements:

    Deliverable 1:
        a. Include the mongoimport command text you used to import establishments.json in a      markdown cell at the beginning of your Jupyter notebook file 

        b. The mongoimport command text correctly drops any existing establishments collection before importing establishments.json into MongoDB 

        c. The database is named uk_food and the collection is named establishments 

        d. Correctly imports PyMongo and Pretty Print 

        e. An instance of the Mongo Client is created 

        f. Lists the databases in Mongo, which includes uk_food 

        g. Lists the collection(s) in the uk_food database, which includes establishments in the output 

        h. Use find_one() and pprint to display one document in the establishments collection 

        I. The establishments collection is assigned to a variable 

    Deliverable 2:
        a. The supplied data for the "Penang Flavours" restaurant is correctly inserted into the establishments collection 

        b. A query is performed to find the BusinessTypeID for "Restaurant/Cafe/Canteen" and returns only the BusinessTypeID and BusinessType fields 

        c. The "Penang Flavours" document is updated with the correct value for BusinessTypeID 

        d. A query is correctly performed to delete all the documents in the collection where "Dover Local Authority" is the value for LocalAuthorityName 

        e. A count_documents() check is performed before and after the removal of the Dover documents to ensure the documents were removed 

        f. An update_many() query is performed to convert the latitude and longitude fields from strings to decimal numbers and RatingValue to integers 

    Deliverable 3: 
        Question 1: Which establishments have a hygiene score equal to 20? 

            A query is correctly performed to find the establishments with a hygiene score of 20 

            A count_documents() is used to list the correct number of documents (answer: 41) 

            The first result is printed using pprint 

            The results are converted to a Pandas DataFrame and displays the first 10 rows 

        Question 2: Which establishments in London have a RatingValue greater than or equal to 4? 

            A query is correctly performed to find the establishments in London with a RatingValue greater than or equal to 4 

            The query uses the $regex operator to locate the London establishments 

            The count_documents() is used to list the correct number of documents (answer: 33) 

            The first result is printed using pprint 

            The results are converted to a Pandas DataFrame and displays the first 10 rows 

        Question 3: What are the top 5 establishments with a RatingValue of 5, sorted by lowest hygiene score, nearest to the new restaurant added, "Penang Flavours"? 

            A query is correctly performed to find the establishments within 0.01 degree of the "Penang Flavours" restaurant 

            The query also limits the results to establishments with a RatingValue of 5 

            The query uses the sort() method in PyMongo to sort in ascending order on the hygiene score 

            The query uses the limit() method in PyMongo to limit the results to 5 

            All five results are printed using pprint 

            The results are converted to a Pandas DataFrame and displayed 

        Question 4: How many establishments in each Local Authority area have a hygiene score of 0? Sort the results from highest to lowest, and print out the top ten local authority areas. 

            An aggregation pipeline is built to include a match query, group, and sort (3 points)

            The match query matches documents with a hygiene score of 0 

            The group step of the pipeline is grouped on LocalAuthorityName and counts the number of documents 

            The sort step of the pipeline sorts the count of the documents in descending order 

            The aggregation pipeline is correctly sent to the aggregate() method 

            The results from the aggregation query is cast as a list and then saved to a variable 

            The first ten results are printed using pprint 

            The results are converted to a Pandas DataFrame and displays the first 10 rows

Commit message:

Updated Readme file with nbviewer note

README.md, after:

# nosql-challenge

This assignment consists of two deliverables:

    Deliverable 1: Database and Jupyter Notebook Set Up
    Deliverable 2: Updating the Database
    Deliverable 3: Exploratory Analysis


Data Engineering: 
    MongoDB
    PyMongo
    NoSQL_setup_starter.ipynb 
        NOTE: When file is ran in GitHub an "Unable to render code block" message is recieved. 
              File has to be open in nbViewer.
                1. Goto nbviewer site at https://nbviewer.org
                2. Enter the following: https://github.com/HeliosRider/nosql-challenge/blob/main/NoSQL_setup_starter.ipynb. Select the Go! option.
    NoSQL_analysis_starter.ipynb 
    establishments.json file

Data Analysis Requirements:

    Deliverable 1:
        a. Include the mongoimport command text you used to import establishments.json in a      markdown cell at the beginning of your Jupyter notebook file 

        b. The mongoimport command text correctly drops any existing establishments collection before importing establishments.json into MongoDB 

        c. The database is named uk_food and the collection is named establishments 

        d. Correctly imports PyMongo and Pretty Print 

        e. An instance of the Mongo Client is created 

        f. Lists the databases in Mongo, which includes uk_food 

        g. Lists the collection(s) in the uk_food database, which includes establishments in the output 

        h. Use find_one() and pprint to display one document in the establishments collection 

        I. The establishments collection is assigned to a variable 

    Deliverable 2:
        a. The supplied data for the "Penang Flavours" restaurant is correctly inserted into the establishments collection 

        b. A query is performed to find the BusinessTypeID for "Restaurant/Cafe/Canteen" and returns only the BusinessTypeID and BusinessType fields 

        c. The "Penang Flavours" document is updated with the correct value for BusinessTypeID 

        d. A query is correctly performed to delete all the documents in the collection where "Dover Local Authority" is the value for LocalAuthorityName 

        e. A count_documents() check is performed before and after the removal of the Dover documents to ensure the documents were removed 

        f. An update_many() query is performed to convert the latitude and longitude fields from strings to decimal numbers and RatingValue to integers 

    Deliverable 3: 
        Question 1: Which establishments have a hygiene score equal to 20? 

            A query is correctly performed to find the establishments with a hygiene score of 20 

            A count_documents() is used to list the correct number of documents (answer: 41) 

            The first result is printed using pprint 

            The results are converted to a Pandas DataFrame and displays the first 10 rows 

        Question 2: Which establishments in London have a RatingValue greater than or equal to 4? 

            A query is correctly performed to find the establishments in London with a RatingValue greater than or equal to 4 

            The query uses the $regex operator to locate the London establishments 

            The count_documents() is used to list the correct number of documents (answer: 33) 

            The first result is printed using pprint 

            The results are converted to a Pandas DataFrame and displays the first 10 rows 

        Question 3: What are the top 5 establishments with a RatingValue of 5, sorted by lowest hygiene score, nearest to the new restaurant added, "Penang Flavours"? 

            A query is correctly performed to find the establishments within 0.01 degree of the "Penang Flavours" restaurant 

            The query also limits the results to establishments with a RatingValue of 5 

            The query uses the sort() method in PyMongo to sort in ascending order on the hygiene score 

            The query uses the limit() method in PyMongo to limit the results to 5 

            All five results are printed using pprint 

            The results are converted to a Pandas DataFrame and displayed 

        Question 4: How many establishments in each Local Authority area have a hygiene score of 0? Sort the results from highest to lowest, and print out the top ten local authority areas. 

            An aggregation pipeline is built to include a match query, group, and sort (3 points)

            The match query matches documents with a hygiene score of 0 

            The group step of the pipeline is grouped on LocalAuthorityName and counts the number of documents 

            The sort step of the pipeline sorts the count of the documents in descending order 

            The aggregation pipeline is correctly sent to the aggregate() method 

            The results from the aggregation query is cast as a list and then saved to a variable 

            The first ten results are printed using pprint 

            The results are converted to a Pandas DataFrame and displays the first 10 rows
